?	What is your public IP address right now, and how did you find it?

Open comand promt and write: ipconfig on windows, it will return several information look at ipv4 point

?	What is your private IP address right now (do this both at home and in school), and who/what 
gave you that address?

This school automatic router setup with the help of DHCP(https://kb.iu.edu/d/adov) 

?	What’s special about these address ranges?
?	10.0.0.0 – 10.255.255.255
?	172.16.0.0 – 172.31.255.255 : 
?	192.168.0.0 – 192.168.255.255 : class C , routers use automatically address 192.168.0.0 through 192.168.0.255  . 
The three fields are for private use, as that they originally where supposed to cover the world wide webs demand for ip addresses, that could not work in the long run so they instead figured they could be used for local work ,aka no with contact to the world net. They are still set I classes. They connect using TCP/IP. 

?	What’s special about this ip-address: 127.0.0.1?

That is the ip-address dedicated to the localhost, that is the local address for the pc.

?	What kind of service would you expect to find on a server using these ports: 22, 23, 25, 53, 80, 443?
Ports from 0 to 1023 are known as well-known ports/ system ports.  That means that they are taken and have a predefined or reserved placeholder and cannot be used.
Port	Server
22	Secure Shell (SSH),[10] secure logins, file transfers (scp, sftp) and port forwarding
23	Telnet protocol—unencrypted text communications
25	Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP),[10][24] used for email routing between mail servers
53	Domain Name System (DNS)
80	Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
443	Hypertext Transfer Protocol over TLS/SSL (HTTPS)

?	What is the IP address of studypoints.dk and how did you find it?

By using the commands ”ping” or ”whois” followed by the address, it will give you the IP address,
(for ping you got to write halt afterwards or else it will continue to try send packets.
the address is 165.227.137.75.

?	If you write https://studypoints.dk in your browser, 
how did “it” figure out that it should go to 
the IP address you discovered above?

That is possible with beacause studypoints.dk is connect to the ip address through 
DNS with is domaine navigation system. Its function is to caltalog 
ip addresse to a one or more dns pages.

?	Explain shortly the purpose of an ip-address and a port-number and why we need both?

Ip adres it the address needed to communicate with the WWW, and the ports is used for 
several programs to work and use the connection, each port from 0 to 1027 are set to be 
used by certain program or reserved for the future.


 ?	What is your (nearest) DNS server,?
There is programs on can install, like Namebench, 
which can assist in finding the best DNS for the pc. 

?	What is (conceptually) the DNS system and the purpose with a DNS Server?
DNS purpose is the assist in getting to a domain name, by finding the corresponding IP address.
 A DNS server makes that the search can be quicker by either finding the IP or 
requesting another DNS server for assistance. 

?	What is your current Gateway, and how did you find it?
You can look through the internet value by looking the sharing center in network in t e controlpanel, 
or you can write ipfonfig in the comanprompt. 

?	What is the address of your current DHCP-Server, and how did you find it?
You can write ipconfig /all In the cmd prompt and it will show up. 

?	Explain (conceptually) about the TCP/IP-protocol stack
It Is the practical version og the OSI 7-layers model, where the is only neede 4 layers: Apllikation: http/HTTPS,
 Trans,: TCO/ UDP, Netwærk IP, Datalink: Ethernet, Physical: UTP/STP
?	Explain about the HTTP Protocol (the following exercises will go much deeper into this protocol)

HTTP (hypertext transfer protocol) is a client-server protocol used to be able to 
retrieve data(html, images video etc. ) from a server to a client (browsers f.eks.)
 It is best to use with it with TCP(transmission control protocol). 

?	Explain (conceptually) how HTTP and TCP/IP are connected 
(what can HTTP do, and where does it fit into TCP/IP
http used to get data, TCP/IP is the way that the data is received, 
The TCP/ip is the 4 layer model that is used for the client to communicate 
with a server and HTTP is the layer where we at the application layer, 
where the data is requested and responded on. 

TCP/IP: består af 4 lag, som gøre at man kan tage imod / sende pakker 
Apllikation: http/HTTPS, Trans,: TCO/ UDP, Netwærk IP, Datalink: Ethernet, Physical: UTP/STP


